What's up everyone.
Mark pricer slopes dot com and we are going to dive into the wide world of HVM DML and what you're going
to find as we go through this is that you going to learn really fast.
OK.
He is actually quite simple once you pick it up.
And so what we're going to do now it's going to seem extended because I'm going to go in detail on things
but you'll later look back and be like wow this I can learn this in five minutes what you can.
So.
And it's OK if it takes a little bit longer.
For those who are absolutely knew and had never coded anything but it's relatively straightforward once
you get the hang of it here.
So I'm going to go ahead and create a new folder.
I want to go over here to my courses my ultimate web development course Section 1 and create a new folder
here called Code recording the code for when I'm recording and I'm going to create a new folder called
Hello world.
And actually no we're going to call this just.
We'll call this first web site.
That's what I meant to do.
And what I'm going to do is open the folder in brackets so let's go find brackets.
OK I've got another project open here I'm just going to go to file open folder and we are going to go
find what we just created.
And this I can see all these invisible files.
Which is why we're seeing all this stuff here.
And it was in documents that I put it in.
Sure enough it was OK.
Documents Section 1 Code recording first web site open.
As you can see there's nothing here so let's go in and create a new file.
We're going to call this index HVM l now.
Question of the day is does it have to be named index.
And the answer is no.
However when you're building Web sites the typical entry point file that you have will be called index
T.M. and servers like if you host on a server like Go Daddy or just some place that's hosting your files
your static files will look for an index the T.M. or indexed up DHP to get your project started and
loaded on the browser.
OK.
Perfect.
So here we go.
We're going to start off by doing something called doc type.
OK.
And then HVM else.
Now this is not an HTML tag.
This is simply a statement that lets your browser know which version of HTML that you are using.
And currently we are using HTML 5 which is why we don't do anything else except write HGL here and ASTM
5 is widely supported among all browsers.
And if you are developing on Windows I highly recommend that you do not do any testing on your Microsoft
edge or at least do your development work.
You can do your testing on it because most people don't use that and the developer tools available on
Chrome and Firefox are much better.
So you always have a document stating what type of HTML version that you're using.
OK.
And some browsers you don't need to put that on there but it can cause problems so it's always recommended
that you put it there.
The next thing we're going to do to start off is we're going to put an age DML tag.
OK.
This is a tag and this is the beginning of your document.
Pretty cool.
The next thing you're going to do is put in the body and a body is like the content just think of a
person.
You've got the head and then you've got the body.
OK.
So inside the body is where you can actually write different things.
So let's go ahead now that we've got some HTL here.
Let's go ahead and save this file comment s and let's click the lightning bolt over here for a live
preview to see what actually happens when we load it as you can see our screen is blank.
Is it working.
Well it's hard to know.
So what I'm going to do is from day one I'm going to teach you the professional development tools that
you'll be using in your life as a web developer.
So what we're going to do is hold down control alt and J or command alt j which is going to open up
the console.
OK.
So fail to load resource.
It can't find fabby Konda ICAO which is fine.
You're always going to see this error unless you provide a little icon up here and which we don't.
We don't need that and so I'm here on the console tab.
OK this is the Google Chrome console and that command command all Jair control alt j that only works
on google chrome.
OK.
Firefox has their own development tools were using Google Chrome in this course.
Lets see the elements that are here.
If you click elements you can hover over them.
OK.
And it shows the CSSA down here.
Now this is just boilerplate C-s us and we didn't write any of this but pretty cool.
We can see what's in our body which actually is nothing right now so this will be very important for
us moving forward.
So nothing's happening though.
And what's the reason why.
Well it's because we haven't written anything to display on here so let's go ahead and do that now.
We're going to pretend that we're building a simplified version of def slopes learned to code website
where you come to the Web site you can find some various courses and you can buy them or watch them.
OK.
And so what we want to do is we kind of want to have some type of banner saying welcome to our page.
So we're going to say welcome to devs slopes command to save or control us.
And if we go back over to our preview here OK I think we lost our live connection because I opened up
the console source open this up again.
Welcome to the slopes sure enough it's right there.
OK.
And what I do want to do is open up the console again another way to do that is right click and go to
inspect.
This will open up the console and it will let you inspect it here and sure enough whereas it was empty
before it now has an H1 tag here.
Data brackets equals five.
That just has to do with brackets.
They're inserting that for us dynamically.
Here in this as it's running this don't worry about that has nothing to do with our project.
It's simply with this tool so we can do the live preview.
And then there's the text welcome to def slopes.
OK.
And again don't worry about the equals to zero as well too.
That has nothing to do with what we're writing here.
These are just some debug tools that has been inserted for us.
Very cool.
And some say that these are just basic style sheets that are implemented for us.
We didn't write any of that either.
OK that's default stuff.
So pretty cool stuff here.
Live preview is cancelled because the browsers developed portals were opened so just know your live
preview will actually not work if you pull up and the developer tools.
And if you don't remember the live preview is very powerful.
It lets us do things like code and watch the results at the same time.
So if I say welcome to def slopes exclamation exclamation exclamation the live preview shows that real
time which is why I like to use brackets because that's pretty darn cool.
OK so what we've done so far is we've created the we specify what type of HTL we're using.
We've started with the HTML tag and we've ended using the backslash here.
Where is that fourth slash that's a forward slash.
We've used the forward slash to end the HDMI.
Every time you write well most tags and T.M. OK we'll have a Ford slash on them to show that we're ending
it.
OK.
And notice how they kind of line up here if you want to move things around like indent them you can
press tab to indent or shift and tab to unindexed.
OK.
And we've used the header tags so far.
This is where H-1 stands for.
There are other multiple header tags available to us which I can show you right now.
So say H-2 welcome to slopes.
OK.
Are starting to see a trend here.
H-3 welcome to DENSELOW
H for same thing right I'll come to that slopes pretty cool right.
So let's see what happens if I take this tag off.
Well this still looks the same.
This is read.
Yelling at us here but it looks fine.
What's the problem.
Let's see if anything's happening.
Command J.
Let's go to elements.
OK.
So you got an H for here.
And look at that.
For some reason it's like inserting it for us automatically.
That's really interesting huh.
Well let's refresh the page OK.
It just put it in there for us automatically.
OK.
Now that's really bad.
And some browsers aren't as smart and won't fix this for you.
So it's very very important no matter what that you always listen to your idea here your tool or more
importantly that you always end your tags.
OK.
So it's a 4 and the higher if you go the smaller the fun gets right.
Welcome to Dove slopes.
OK so you definitely can do different types of tags here.
And we lost her life preview of course.
Let's open that up again.
OK.
So we've worked with Hetter so far.
Welcome bedevils Welcome to the slopes welcome to disclose welcome to do so.
Welcome to the slopes.
Pretty cool.
And let's do one more thing.
Let's go ahead and work with the title here in order to work with the title on your page you have to
put in a head a head is typically not visible the things you put in it are not visible and that is typically
where you load things like CSSA or external font files or things like that.
However one is visible which is the title of your page so we can say dev slopes dev slopes learn to
code and as you can see appear on the browser tab that is where that is specified is here in the head
and in the title we do have an ending title tag here and we do have an ending head tag here and this
is all coming together.
Now I'm going to get rid of these other header tags because we only need one welcome the death.
So you've learned a lot here you've learned again about the doc type which specifies which version of
HTL you start your your web apps or your HTL files with a small tag and then a head tag if you want
to put link things which we have not done yet and then we've got the body tag which is actually where
your content will go.
OK.
And sometimes also people like to link files here at the bottom of the body tag as well to load after
the body is loaded which is you can do that as well.
And we talked about header's 1 through 5.
You can read more about headers on the W3 references on the on on the Internet.
And we're going to call this video done.
You've just dived into the world web Velma and the subsequent videos we are going to finish building
are very simple web site which is going to be quite ugly because there's no CSSA but we've got to start
somewhere.
So Mark Price it slopes dotcom.
Movin on and for.